# rejourn
rejourn is a static site generator for programmers. Just write an
article in a markup language of your choice, and some metadata
information like author/ date; rejourn takes care of the rest.

## Dependencies
* Mako Python bindings
* Markdown Python bindings [optional: for markdown rendering]
* Nose [optional: for running included tests]

## Features
* Markdown and Asciidoc. It can easily be extended to support more
  markup languages- simply write a tranform function and add it to the
  'htransform_mapper' in 'util.py'.
* Dependencies handled by Makefile. This means that an output HTML
  file will not be built unless and until the corresponding input file
  changes.
* Drafts. The 'draft' metadata header controls whether the output
  should be built.
* Static pages. For pages in the toplevel index like "About
  me". Controlled by 'static' metadata header.
* Configurable views. The template to render with the given content is
  controlled by a simple 'view_mapper' in 'util.py'.
* Tags. You can assign associate multiple freeform tags to a single
  article, and view all articles with a certain tag. Controlled by
  'tags' metadata header.
* Cache. No article is ever unnecessarily rebuilt- the content is
  hashed and stored in the 'cache' subdirectory to recall at a later
  time. This is especially useful when the site has many tags.
* RSS 2.0 feed. Built by default- no extra configuration required.

## Available metadata headers
* title: The title.
* author: The author.
* snip: A short description of the article.  Appears in index.
* view: The design view to use.  Can be single, index, or rss.
* htransform: The filter to pass the content through.  Can be
  "markdown" or "asciidoc".
* tags: The tags the post should be associated with.
* static: A boolean specifying whether the page should appear in the
  index.  Useful for "about" pages.
* draft: A boolean specifying whether the page should be built.
* permalink: The permalink.  Automatically written when built.
* pubdate: The date of publishing.  Automatically written when built.

## Usage
Copy core.cfg.example as core.cfg and modify it to set the indir, outdir and
possibly other options. Run the `configure` script to generate the Makefile;
then run `make` to produce the actual HTML pages in outdir. Run `make test` to
run the included tests.

When an existing input file is modified, run `make` to update the
output file. When the Makefile needs to be regenerated to build new
input files, run the `configure` script to regenerate it.

Use Apache's mod_rewrite (or the corresponding feature in your
webserver) to append '.html' at the end of URLs to access the
corresponding physical files. All links generated by rejourn assume
this configuration.

## Contributing
Simply fork the project on GitHub and send pull requests.
